How to Make a Peanut Butter and Jelly Sandwich

In this tutorial, we will be demonstrating how to make a standard peanut butter and jelly sandwich. This is a perfect snack or meal for those on a budget or in a rush.

Imagine: You are hungry and in need of a meal. In your pantry, you have peanut butter, jelly, and bread. You are not sure how to combine these ingredients to make a sandwich, so you come to our tutorial for advice! Enjoy!

Step-1: Get the ingredients
Collect all of your ingredients needed for this sandwich. You are going to want:

Peanut butter (crunchy or smooth, your choice, we used crunchy)
Jelly (flavor of your choice, we used grape)
Sandwich bread (white or wheat, we used white)
Plates to eat the sandwich on
Butter knife


Optional items:
Disposable gloves
Tablespoon (for measurement)

Step-2: Put Gloves on (optional)
Put on gloves for an added sanitary factor. We will be wearing gloves for this demonstration.

Step-3: Pull Out Two Slices of Bread
Pull out two slices of bread and lay side by side on the plate.

Step-4: Open Peanut Butter and Jelly
Open the peanut butter and jelly and remove any added seals in order to use the product.
Tip: Stir peanut butter if necessary to make a smoother mixture and distribute the oil that may have settled. Ours was fine so we skipped this step.

Step-5: Spread the Peanut Butter Onto One Slice of Bread
Get preferred amount of peanut butter onto the knife (for an accurate serving size, get about 2 tablespoons) and spread onto one slice of the bread evenly.

Step-6: Spread the Jelly Onto the Other Slice of Bread
Get preferred amount of jelly onto the knife (for an accurate serving size, get about 1 tablespoon) and spread onto one slice of the bread evenly.

Step-7: Combine the Two Slices
Combine the two slices together quickly. Try to match the two slices as close as possible so the crust is evenly matched on both sides so the sandwich is more appetizing and less messy.

Step-8: Cut Off the Crusts (optional)
Cut the crusts of the sandwich off using the butter knife. This step is optional for people who prefer no crusts.

Step-9: Cut Into Half
Cut the sandwich diagonally or in half down the middle depending on your preference.

Step-10: Clean Up Your Workspace
Clean up your workspace by closing the peanut butter and jelly, replacing the bread tie on the opening of the bread bag, washing your knife and disposing of your gloves.

Step-11: Enjoy Your Sandwich
The final step is to enjoy your sandwich! Whether you want to eat it on the go or enjoy with a glass of milk is all up to you.

User Comments

Juliauna:
I have to say, I'm amazed. I've had these ingredients just sitting around for months and until now I've never known a use for them! I made this sandwich a few days ago, but I am wondering what I should do about the blisters on my hands due to the gloves. There were no instruction to take them off afterwards so I've been spending my days wearing them, and it's becoming a little concerning. I am also still a little confused as to why my brother didn't enjoy the sandwich, as it was not an optional instruction, after telling him this he reminded me (rudely) that he has a peanut allergy. Is it true that this would stop him from enjoying it? Anyway, I've been in the hospital with him for a while now and I'm wondering if that instruction still applies? Should I show him the article? Do you think that would make a difference? I did bring the sandwich with me in case, thanks in advance! It also doesn't specify how the jelly should be applied, so I used my better judgment and used my hand. Overall, I'd love if you went into more detail next time, maybe a few hundred steps to be sure.

Teaksoo:
Why do you need gloves when you are making jellyfish sandwich?

Holman.Shane:
How do I combine the two slices together?

GREY_59:
How do I spread the jelly tho?

Penolopy Bulnick:
Very nice :) I always find myself craving one of these!

Real Eater:
What happened the crusts you cut off?

Let's Eat:
You lost me in step-3!!!

Acknowledgement
I hereby acknowledge that the content of the web page was adapted from this site.

Link: https://www.instructables.com/id/How-to-Make-a-Peanut-Butter-and-Jelly-Sandwich-4/

